# Punch-it-proof-that-anybody-can-code-
This is a silly game I made after only 2 months experience coding in python. A simple motion controlled game. 

project video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gd-0z5jYvZU&t=144s

Design Overview:
Throughout my project, I used object oriented programming to create one class for each type of game instances, such as the player, the enemy, the obstacles, the bullets fired and the blood splatter etc. To organize each type of game object into one class, I can assign methods and certain characteristics that all of them shares, such as how characters move or how bullets causes damage, and summarize them into one group instead of having to worry about them individually. I also used multiple inheritance to assign similar characteristics to different classes, such as the Player class and the Enemy class are both parented by the Human class and the Physics class, which control the basic skeletal movements and assert gravity. In my game, all classes are sprites to better handle collision detection and sprites overlap. Also, since I featured a  start menu, I fitted a mode dispatcher class, Totalcontrol, that determines which mode, Gamecontrol or Startcontrol, to execute based on user inputs or the termination of the game, and to reinitialize either sub control class once it has been terminated and recalled. The overall game world design is achieved through a 2-d 14 by 40 list that represents where obstacles are placed. The same list is also used to determine where to randomly spawn enemies so that it doesn’t overlap with the walls, and to be analyzed by the enemy AI algorithm to determine the route to approach player while avoiding obstacles. In addition to the game design and mechanics part, game control is another problem I faced in this project since I opted to design a Kinect controlled game. To categorically use the pykinect module, I wrote a separate class for the Kinect control instance that includes all the methods I would use for the game clearly outlined. The Kinect instance is created once a body is detected by the sensor and joints data updated every time the main program updates. 

Competitive Analysis:
Basic features I wish to include in my project are universal gravity for all characters, stationary and moving obstacles, different classes of enemies, different classes of weapons with different levels of damage, different difficulty levels and relatively accurate and comprehensive control through the Kinect sensor. I regard familiarity with the Kinect sensor and the PyKinect V2 module a pre-requisite for my project and the first goal to achieve. I have discovered two examples on GitHub detailing the competence of the PyKinect module by drawing skeletal lines over a surface of real-time images from the Kinect HD camera refreshed at 60 fps. More specifically, in the demo, I learnt that each joint is assigned an alias that refers to an integer and that, when joints are tracked, such index in the list of tracked joints returns a tuple of the joint’s x,y,z positions. However, I will not be drawing the real-time video feed on the surface as it could be easily mishandled and uses the ctypes module which I am not at all familiar with. In term of the game itself, I first carefully traced codes of several pygame examples found on GitHub, namely, an animation example, an obstacle example, a color filter example, and a moving platform example. From all these examples combined, I became relatively familiar with the game framework using pygame module, which includes all the classes of game instances such as player, enemy, obstacles etc. and a control class whose methods includes making of the instances, game loop, event loop, update of all moving parts, drawing or bliting all images on surface after each update. More specifically, the faster graphics processing using pygame allows me to test for pixel perfect collision in my game without having to worry about run time. On a higher level, after browing through the source code for ‘Asteroid’ from the pygame lecture, I would like to adapt a bullet class in my program that is very similar to what it does in Asteroid. I also carefully read through the animal classes and subclasses from the Hermit source code and find the skeletal representation and drawing methods very interesting in that each joint is represented by its coordinates and the drawing methods for different class connects different joints so that without importing images. There also are various command methods such as move, drink etc. that alters the joints coordinates to simulate realistic movement. These methods can present realistic looking movements of game characters. 

